Write a blog post about the new Tuist vision (#118)
tuist/website: src/content/posts/2024/07/16/empower-teams-to-build-better-apps-faster.mdx

---
title: "Empowering teams to build better apps faster"
categories: ["Product"]
excerpt: "Tuist is shifting its focus to empower teams to build better apps faster. Learn more about our new vision and what's coming next."
author: pepicrft
---

Tuist started in 2017 with a very narrow focus.
**Making Xcode's complexities more manageable.**
Since then,
we've grown to be an indispensable tool for many development teams to build their apps:

> - [Asana scaled their iOS Codebase with Tuist](https://asana.com/inside-asana/scaling-a-mature-ios-codebase-with-tuist)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Asana scaled their iOS codebase with Tuist](https://asana.com/inside-asana/scaling-a-mature-ios-codebase-with-tuist)
```

- [Bumble chose it over Bazel and SPM to scale their development](https://medium.com/bumble-tech/scaling-ios-at-bumble-76754fa874f7)
- [Trendyol made Tuist their modularization cornerstone](https://medium.com/trendyol-tech/revamping-trendyols-ios-app-a-modularization-success-story-a6c1d2c4188b)

During this journey, we've learned a lot about the challenges teams face when building apps.
And we built solutions for those challenges,
like slow build or test times,
stretching Tuist's original focus around Xcode's complexities.

> This made organizations and developer confusing about what Tuist is and what it does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This left organizations and developers confused about what Tuist is and what it does.
```

We believe there must be a better way: an ["omakase"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omakase) for app developers. We envision an integrated experience with sensible defaults and the right extensibility points. This experience would hold your hand from the moment you start your project until you ship it to your users, helping you scale your development and your team. It would be an experience that can be easily ported from one project to another, from one team to another, and from one organization to another. We are building that experience with Tuist.

**We are shifting our focus to empower teams to build better apps faster.**

## Meeting developers where they are

> Our strategy has always been to meet developers where they are by integrating with the official tools and APIs provided by Apple and equipping them with superpowers. A good testament to this work is our caching feature, which leverages Xcode primitives to achieve this. We will continue this approach, minimizing abstractions as much as possible, aligning with Apple's direction, and embracing the languages and tools that developers are familiar with and love, such as [Swift](https://www.swift.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our strategy has always been to meet developers where they are by integrating with the official tools and APIs provided by Apple and equipping them with superpowers. A good testament to this work is our caching feature, which leverages Xcode primitives to achieve this. We will continue with this approach, minimizing abstractions as much as possible, aligning with Apple's direction, and embracing the languages and tools that developers are familiar with and love, such as [Swift](https://www.swift.org/).
```

> Moreover, we are taking the approach of meeting developers where they are even further. We believe that ignoring the fact that developers spend significant time on platforms like [Slack](https://slack.com), [GitHub](https://github.com), and [GitLab](https://gitlab.com) is a mistake. Developers often spend a substantial portion of their time there collaborating with each other and with other teams and roles. It is crucial that their workflows integrate seamlessly with these platforms so that anyone in the organization can access the information they need to make informed decisions without having to install developer-specific toolchains. Therefore, we are embracing the web platform and URLs as units of collaboration. Developers and organizations that want to extend Tuist's capabilities further will be able to do so by plugging their projects into a server, and voila.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, we are taking the approach of meeting developers where they are even further. We believe that ignoring the fact that developers spend significant time on platforms like [Slack](https://slack.com), [GitHub](https://github.com), and [GitLab](https://gitlab.com) is a mistake. Developers often spend a substantial portion of their time there collaborating with each other and with other teams and roles. It is crucial that their workflows integrate seamlessly with these platforms, so that anyone in the organization can access the information they need to make informed decisions without having to install developer-specific toolchains. Therefore, we are embracing the web platform and URLs as units of collaboration. Developers and organizations that want to extend Tuist's capabilities further will be able to do so by plugging their projects into a server, and voila.
```

**Tuist becomes a unified toolchain that encompasses both the client (CLI) and the server (formerly Tuist Cloud).**

## The lifecycle of an app

> The toolchain will reflect the lifecycle of apps, from their creation to their delivery to users. The CLI, the dashboard, and our documentation will all mirror this lifecycle. We believe it’s crucial for developers to feel comfortable understanding and using the toolchain. Long-term, we aim for Tuist’s interface, which is very client-centric today, to evolve as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The toolchain will reflect the lifecycle of apps, from their creation to their release. The CLI, the dashboard, and our documentation will all mirror this lifecycle. We believe it’s crucial for developers to feel comfortable understanding and using the toolchain. Long-term, we aim for Tuist’s interface, which is very client-centric today, to evolve as follows:
```

## Embracing openness

The best organizations that we aspire to be like have one thing in common: *openness* (e.g., [Supabase](https://supabase.com/), [GitLab](https://gitlab.com), [PostHog](https://posthog.com)). Being open is what has brought us to where we are. It’s how we built trust with our users, created a foundation for diverse ideas, fostered collaboration, and, without a doubt, developed high-quality software that lasts and solves real problems. We are committed to doubling down on this value.

We are working on establishing a path and timeline to open-source everything we do without compromising our ability to build a sustainable business. We are documenting how we are building the company in a [public handbook](https://handbook.tuist.io) that is available for everyone to read. We believe that having **a handbook will enable a frictionless and asynchronous remote work environment, attracting the best talent from around the world.** As first-time founders on this journey, we also aim to inspire others to start their own companies and share their learnings with the world.

> We will also **commoditize some pieces of technology** that we’ve noticed are common across many organizations to help elevate innovation at different layers of the stack. We believe that by doing so, we can help organizations focus on what differentiates them rather than on undifferentiated heavy lifting. Expect a handful of open-source projects from us in the coming months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will also **commoditize some pieces of technology** that we’ve noticed are common across many organizations to help elevate innovation at different layers of the stack. We believe that by doing so, we can help organizations focus on what differentiates them rather than on focusing on zero-sum game. Expect a handful of open-source projects from us in the coming months.
```

Not sure if this is the best way to rephrase, but `undifferentiated heavy lifting` is too vague imho.
